%\section{NARX}
\label{sec:application:NARX}

We implemented the NARX neural network with the Neural Network Toolbox
of MatLab. In order to adapt the topology to our scenario, we
configured the network with four exogenous inputs (HR, EDA,
temperature and SpO2). We used as output signal of the system a line
whose slope is determined by the time interval between the beginning
of the aura and pain phases. With this line we try to predict the
upward slope of the symptomatic curve of probability that we have just
modeled.

The used NARX network counts with one hidden layer with 10 neurons
apart from the input and output layers.  The memory feature is
included with a tapped delay line at input.  The activation function
of the hidden layer was established as a \textit{tansig}, whereas the
one used in the output layer is a \textit{purelin}. Then, in order to
obtain values in the range of [0,1], values lower than 0 were fixed
to 0 and the ones greater than 1 to a value of 1.

Another consideration to take into account is that we trained the NARX
network in open loop, in which the true output is used instead of
feeding back the estimated output. The NARX network was then converted
to the closed loop configuration for validating and testing the model.

The training set consists on one, two or three migraines and then we
tested the model with the four migraines we had at our disposal.  We
iteratively checked the perform of the possible combinations of values
of $n_{a}$, $n_{b}$ and $n_{k}$, where $n_{a} = n_{b}$ to reduce
complexity. As the weights of the neurons were randomly initialized,
we created several nets with the same configuration and initialized
and trained each one independently. Then, we compared the results and
stored the best one.

After checking iteratively the perform of the possible combinations of
values of $n_{a}=n_{b}$ and $n_{k}$, with different training and
testing sets, the best NARX model with ANN was obtained when the net
was trained with three migraines, with $n_{k}=10$ and $n_{a}=6=n{b}$.
In order to avoid false positives, we fixed a threshold of probability
of detection of 0.5. The margin of prediction is then defined as the
sum of the $n_{k}$ value and the time interval between the instant
when the prectictive curve reaches the threshold and the begining of
the aura. The resultant graphic (\figref{narxTest}) shows that we gain
a range of 100-200 extra minutes for predicting. In contrast, the
system must be restarted every time a migraine is detected since it
maintains its high level response indefinitely. This would be one of
the aspects to improve in further works.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=\columnwidth]{narxTestgraph}
\caption{NARX model test for a migraine not used in training}
\label{fig:narxTest}
\end{figure}
