
\label{sec:paincurve}

Our purpose is to define a curve that gathers the symptoms suffered by
the patient during a migraine. The patients are asked to indicate
their prodromic symptoms and the aura phase in the Android
application. However, it is almost more important how the pain changes
over time because it is what really incapacitates the patient during
his daily life.

In order to monitor this pain evolution, the patients must register
their headache intensity in real-time; \ie, indicate which is their
punctual pain level at any particular moment during the migraine
crisis.

Unfortunately, currently there is no way to know objectively how a
patient suffers because of a headache. Instead, some tools have been
approved to deal with the pain measurement. The following validated
scales are among the most commonly used measures of pain intensity in
clinical and research
setting \cite{hawker2011measures,williamson2005pain,bashir2013comparative,ferreira2011validity}:

\begin{description}
	
	\item{\textbf{Visual Analog Scale (VAS)}\hfill \\

It is an unidimensional measure of pain intensity which consists on a
	continuous scale comprised of a horizontal (HVAS) or vertical
	(VVAS) line, anchored by two verbal descriptors, one for each
	symptom extreme: ``no pain'' (score of 0) and ``pain as bad as
	it could be'' or ``worst imaginable pain'' (score of 100). The
	user is asked to place a line perpendicular to the VAS line at
	the point that represents their pain intensity. Then, the
	score is determined by measuring the distance on the VAS line
	between the ``no pain'' anchor and the mark of the patient,
	providing a range of scores from 0â€“100 where a higher score
	indicates greater pain intensity.  }

	\item{\textbf{Numeric Rating Scale (NRS)}\hfill \\

	VRS is a segmented numeric version of the VAS in which the
	user selects the integer number between 0 (``no pain'') and 10
	(``worst pain imaginable'') that best reflects the intensity
	of their pain. The NRS can be graphically or verbally
	delivered. Normally, when it is printed, the numbers are often
	enclosed in boxes.  }

        \item{\textbf{Verbal Rating Scale (VRS)}\hfill \\ 

        The VRS comprises a list of adjectives used to denote
	increasing pain intensities. The most common words used being:
	``no pain'', ``mild pain'', ``moderate pain'', and
	``severe/intense pain". The respondent is asked to indicate
	which adjective describes better the intensity of the pain
	suffered. Normally, for ease of recording, each adjectives is
	assigned numbers.  }

        \item{\textbf{Faces Pain Scale (FPS)}\hfill \\ 

        It consists of six faces from left to right side in which
	extreme left face shows ``no pain'' while extreme right face
	emulates ``the worst pain imaginable''. Depending on the type
	of scale, faces can contain smiles, tears or just frown
	lines. The patients have to mark the face which best describe
	their intensity of pain.  }

\end{description}

The major disadvantage of the above-mentioned scales is that the
maximum level of pain is fixed, so the patients must worry about
making converge the greatest intensity of their pain with the highest
level of pain marked in the scale. Thus, if during the migraine crisis
the ``worst pain imaginable'' level is marked and the pain increases
more, the patient is not allowed to indicate this rise and the pain
curve wrongly becomes saturated.

Therefore, we need a different type of scale in which the patients can
always mark a higher level of intensity. We opted then in favour of
monitoring relative changes of pain intensity determined by three
states: more, equal or less than the last time the patient registered
how the headache hurts.  If the pain increases the patient marks a
positive number, negative if decreases and 0 if it remains
equal. Accordingly, the patient can disregard of when the most severe
pain level is achieved and concentrate on quantifying the relative
change.

In this way, we obtain some samples of the curve of pain evolution.
Then, in order to draw the whole curve, an adjustment process of the
registered samples was carried out.  For this purpose, in addition to
the punctual points of the pain evolution, we take into account two
timestamps marked during the migraine attack: the outset and the end
of the pain when detected.

The established modeling function was set as two semi-Gaussian curves,
due to its simplicity and considerable fitting with the patient's
subjective response. \figref{paincurve} shows a example of this
process, where the time between the two referent timestamps
corresponds to the $3\sigma$ value for each semi-bell.  Also the
amplitude of the final curve is normalised in order to homogenise the
evolution of all the migraine crisis registered.

\begin{figure}[!ht]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=\textwidth]{images/paincurvereal}
\caption{Modeling of subjective pain evolution curve}
\label{fig:paincurve}
\end{figure}

Nevertheless, the target signal we used in our algorithms differs
slightly of the curve described.  We set the timestamp of the
beginning of the aura phase as the first referent point instead of
taking the beginning of pain for it. Doing this, we model other
specific symptoms of the migraine disease and allow the algorithms to
predict earlier the pain.

Moreover, our intention is not the modeling of the pain curve of a
migraine, but only predict the its beginning. Therefore, we build a
new gaussian curve setting its maximum value when the pain starts
(probability of headache of 100\%). Then, the decay of the second
semi-bell is determined by a sigma value of $30$ minutes. This way, we
allows a fast reset of the algorithm after predicting a migraine.

